In this video, we'll discuss
the third phase of the
incident response lifecycle.
This phase includes
the steps for
how security teams contain,
eradicate, and recover
from an incident.
It's important to note that
these steps interrelate.
Containment helps meet
the goals of eradication,
which helps meet the
goals of recovery.
This phase of the lifecycle
also integrates with
the core functions of
the NIST Cybersecurity
Framework, Respond and Recover.
Let's begin with the
first step, containment.
After an incident
has been detected,
it must be contained.
Containment is the
act of limiting and
preventing additional damage
caused by an incident.
Organizations outline their
containment strategies
in incident response plans.
Containment strategies
detail the actions that
security teams should take
after an incident
has been detected.
Different containment
strategies are
used for various incident types.
For example, a common
containment strategy
for a malware incident on
a single computer
system is to isolate
the affected system by
disconnecting it from the network.
This prevents the spread of
the malware to other
systems in the network.
As a result, the incident is
contained to the single
compromised system,
which limits any further damage.
Containment actions
are the first step
toward removing a threat
from an environment.
Once an incident
has been contained,
security teams work to remove
all traces of the incident
through eradication.
Eradication involves
the complete removal of
the incident elements from
all affected systems.
For example, eradication
actions include performing
vulnerability tests and applying
patches to vulnerabilities
related to the threat.
Finally, the last
step of this phase in
the incident response
lifecycle is recovery.
Recovery is the
process of returning
affected systems back
to normal operations.
An incident can disrupt
key business operations
and services.
During recovery, any services
that were impacted by
the incident are brought
back to normal operation.
Recovery actions include:
reimaging affected systems,
resetting passwords,
and adjusting
network configurations
like firewall rules.
Remember, the incident response
lifecycle is cyclical.
Multiple incidents
can happen across
time and these incidents
can be related.
Security teams may have to
circle back to other phases
in the lifecycle to conduct
additional investigations.
Next up, we'll discuss
the final phase of the
lifecycle. Meet you there.